# GPD-4303S-GUI
A GUI interface implemented with PyQt6 & PyVISA for remote digital control of the GW Instek GPD-X303S series of power supplies. Due to the limitations of the power supplies supplied driver if you intend to use the GUI which makes use of PyVISA & pyvisa-py modules for communication, be sure to follow what the page for the GPD-X303S (https://www.gwinstek.com/en-global/products/detail/GPD-Series) tells you about the USB-Driver.

From experience, the Windows USB driver paired with this program using Python 3.13.2 & PyQt 6.6.1 will work on a Windows 10 machine as this is what I developed this on. On the GW Instek product page for the GPD-X303S the driver says there is support for Windows Vista, Vista can only use up to Python 3.7, as for PyQt6 support on Python 3.7 and below that would have to be looked into if the need arises.

This GUI will initially read your saved memory states on the GPD-4303S and load them into its memory so that the interface can imitate what the display of the 4303S power supply when you ask for one of the states to be loaded.

# Setup
1. There will be a little bit of setup to do on your part, firstly you need to make sure your OS is a version of Windows 10, the version of Python you will need will be any 3.12.X version or a PyQt6 compatible Python version, and you will need to install the USB drivers listed on this page https://www.gwinstek.com/en-global/products/detail/GPD-Series.
2. Once you have the program and its dependencies you will need to figure out which COM port your power supply wants to connect to through the use of the VISA resource manager. I have already created the code you need ("print(RM.list_resources())") you will need to uncomment it and figure out which device is your power supply (I have found it to be random to relying on what FT232 chip GW Instek gave you when they made the power supply) to do this you need to pull some trial and error to single out the power supply.
3. Next is setting the baud rate using "self.GPD_4303S_RM.baud_rate = YOUR BAUD RATE SETTING", if you know that this power supply has never been digitally interfaced with it is likely set to 9600 bps, otherwise the possible setting are (115200 bps,57600 bps, and 9600 bps)
4. You have likely established a connection to your power supply. If you would like to set the baud rate to a different value you will need to use a line of code I commented out that sends a command to change the baud rate "self.GPD_4303S_RM.write("BAUD0")" (BAUD0 = 115200, BAUD1 = 57600, BAUD2 = 9600, DONT FORGET TO COMMENT IT OUT AFTER), doing so will disconnect the instance and you will have to edit "self.GPD_4303S_RM.baud_rate = YOUR BAUD RATE SETTING" to the proper setting for the next time you run the program.
5. Feel free to leave an "SETUP HELP" issue on the project if you have made a reasonable effort to follow this setup to make my help effective I will need to know (Your Windows Version, Your Python Version, Your PyQt6 version, If you have installed the Windows 10 USB drivers from GW Instek), and I will respond to you when I have time.
